# 游섫릖 SIMages - Similarity join on image database

A web application for the similarity connection of one image, the so-called key, with a set of images. Images are compared based on the VGG-16 convolutional neural network embeddings (activations of the final dense layer). The application will load the available image sets from the appropriate directory and allow the user to interactively select the key and image set. At the same time, the user has several search parameters at his disposal, such as the selection of a predicate (kNN, range) and its parameter or the selection of a metric (cosine similarity, Euclidean distance). The user will then see his chosen key image on a new screen, together with connected images sorted from most similar according to the chosen metric.

After completing the query, the user has the option to continue editing it, either by changing the search parameters or selecting a new key image. For clarity, the application always displays only similarity connections for one key image. With this approach, the application tries to simulate the appearance of recommendation algorithms of various web services. It is therefore a simple recommendation algorithm based on content, which for practical use in an online service could be supplemented with, for example, a collaborative filtering algorithm, i.e. recommendations based on the activity of other users.

See [the full report 游뻟릖쯓(report/report.pdf) for more details. The project was created as a semester project at FIT CTU in the course BI-VWM.

# 游뻟릖 SIMages - Podobnostn칤 spojen칤 na datab치zi obr치zk콢

Webov치 aplikace pro podobnostn칤 spojen칤 jednoho obr치zku, tzv. kl칤캜e, se sadou obr치zk콢. Obr치zky jsou porovn치v치ny na z치klad캩 deskriptor콢 vygenerovan칳ch konvolu캜n칤 neuronovou s칤t칤 VGG-16. Aplikace nahraje dostupn칠 sady obr치zk콢 z p콏칤slu코n칠ho adres치콏e a umo쬹칤 u쬴vateli interaktivn칤 v칳b캩r kl칤캜e a sady obr치zk콢. Z치rove켿 m치 u쬴vatel k dispozici n캩kolik parametr콢 vyhled치v치n칤, jako je v칳b캩r predik치tu (kNN, rozsahov칳) a jeho parametru nebo v칳b캩r metriky (cosinov치 podobnost, Euklidovsk치 vzd치lenost). U쬴vateli se n치sledn캩 na nov칠 obrazovce zobraz칤 jeho zvolen칳 kl칤캜ov칳 obr치zek, spole캜n캩 se spojen칳mi obr치zky se콏azen칳mi od nejpodobn캩j코칤ch podle zvolen칠 metriky.

Po dokon캜en칤 dotazu m치 u쬴vatel mo쬹ost jej nad치le upravovat, bu캞 zm캩nou parametr콢 vyhled치v치n칤 nebo v칳b캩rem nov칠ho kl칤캜ov칠ho obr치zku. Pro p콏ehlednost aplikace v쬯y zobrazuje pouze podobnostn칤 spojen칤 pro jeden kl칤캜ov칳 obr치zek. Aplikace se t칤mto p콏칤stupem sna쮂 simu- lovat vzhled doporu캜ovac칤ch algoritm콢 r콢zn칳ch webov칳ch slu쬰b. Jedn치 se tedy o jednoduch칳 algoritmus doporu캜ov치n칤 na z치klad캩 obsahu, kter칳 by pro praktick칠 pou쬴t칤 v on-line slu쬭캩 mohl b칳t dopln캩n nap콏. o algoritmus kolaborativn칤ho filtrov치n칤, tedy doporu캜en칤 na z치klad캩 aktivity jin칳ch u쬴vatel콢.

Dal코칤 podrobnosti jsou obsa쬰ny v [z치v캩re캜n칠m reportu 游뻟릖쯓(report/report.pdf). Projekt vznikl jako semestr치ln칤 pr치ce na FIT 캛VUT do p콏edm캩tu BI-VWM.